# metagenome-tools
Metagenomic data processing and drawing script.

#Data processing script description
   
# get_sum.py    
No parameters are required. Place the script in the parent directory of the assembly evaluation results completed by quast software to obtain the assembly evaluation information summary table.   
**Generation:** sumary.tsv   
  
# fasta_rename.py [FASTA_FILE_PATH]   
FASTA_FILE_PATH: The path to the FASTA file.   
Modify the name in each sequence of the specified FASTA file to make it standardized and uniform.   
**Generation:** out_[your fasta file name] (FASTA files)   

# mergeMpa.py   
No parameters are required. Place the script in the folder where the mpa file generated by kracken1/2 or bracken software is located.   
*You may need to run the kreport2mpa.py script to convert the report file to an mpa file.*   
This script can convert many of your mpa files into a species abundance matrix.   
**Generated:** mpaMatrix.txt (TABLE file)   

# splitFromLevel.py [MPA_MERGE_FILE] [SPLIT_LEVEL]   
MPA_MERGE_FILE: The path to the mpaMatrix.txt file generated by the mergeMpa.py script.   
SPLIT_LEVEL: Classification of the species abundance table, with the initial letters of bounds, phyla, class, order, family, genus, and species to choose from. Level can go from "a", "k", "p", "c", "o", "f", "g", "s" or its choice in capital letters. Enter "a" to indicate that all taxonomic segmentation tables are generated.   
**Generate:** taxLevel_[uppercase letter of level]_output.[mpaMatrix file name] (TABLE file/files)   

# splitFasta.py [FASTA_FILE_PATH] [Number_of_split_files]   
FASTA_FILE_PATH: The FASTA file path you want to split.   
Number_of_split_files: The number of split FASTA files.   
Split FASTA files into smaller FASTA files according to the number of sequences.   
**Generation:** [Split file number]_[your fasta file name] (FASTA files)   

# read_keg.py [KEG_FILE]   
KEG_FILE: KEG files downloaded from the KEGG database, such as the common ko00001.keg.   
Parse the KEG file.   
**Generation 1:** output_[your keg file name] (TABLE file)   
**Generation 2:** ko_match_KO.txt (TABLE file)   
**Generation 3:** KO_map.txt (TABLE file)   
